Episode 29, George.
Elizabeth and I had no idea why we were arrested and
brought to a farmhouse on the outskirts of Anhaz.
Wasn’t the letter from Miki enough?
Why were we being held at a house and not a prison?
After several hours of being held at gunpoint, a general came to explain.
“I’m General Setiev,” he informed us.
“I’m holding you here for your own protection while a special operation takes place at the palace.”
“It’s a coup!” Elizabeth exclaimed.
“Well…” said Setiev cautiously, “If everything goes
according to plan there will be a change in leadership.”
“And then you’ll let us go free…?” I asked
“No,” he said, without emotion.
“Then you’ll be put on trial, found guilty and executed.”
My blood ran cold.
“What if…” I said, “what if… the coup doesn’t succeed?”
“Then I’ll be executed!” laughed Setiev.
And he motioned for a soldier to bring vodka.
We drank vodka with the general in silence for over an
hour, and then he received a call on his cell phone.
“Da, da…” he said, smiling into the phone.
Then he turned to me and said, “Sic semper tyrannis.”
It’s a Latin phrase that we learned at Hemsworth.
It means, “and thus for all tyrants.” The coup was successful.
We spent three more days in custody at the farmhouse..
I just couldn’t stop thinking about our execution.
Would it really end this way?
But on the third day, Setiev returned with news.
“President Topov has changed his mind - you’ll be freed.
You’ll be able to visit Miki one last time and then you’ll leave the country and never return.
You will tell British newspapers that you were treated well and spared”
I hugged Elizabeth and we both burst into tears.
“Here are your phones,” Setiev told us, handing them over,
“You can read all about what happened on your BBC and CNN.
We leave in ten minutes.”
We both grabbed our phones, eager for news of Miki and the coup.
But before I got to the news, I noticed I had an urgent message.
It was from London, but from someone with an Ankhaz name…  Mikitiv